in the English language a dogfight
suggests one dog fighting another a
cockfight suggests one [ __ ] a male
chicken fighting another nobody would
say that a cockfight means a human being
stomping on a [ __ ] yeah but bullfighting
is the exception when we talk about
bullfighting we're generally not talking
about one bullfighting another we're
talking about a human being slaughtering
a bowl in a public display yesterday
twenty-nine-year-old bullfighter victor
barrier was gored to death by a bull
that he was slowly and agonizingly
torturing and of course planning to kill
the tragedy of the bullfighters death
took place in a town in the east of
spain called taro L I think that's how
you pronounce it but that's not really
important the astonishing thing is that
that this bullfighters death or rather
the bullfighting was being broadcast
live on Spanish television nothing else
that that's just incredibly shocking is
that according to Spanish custom the
mother of the bull who got this idiot to
death had to be sent to the
slaughterhouse and have a throat cut and
she was killed in a horrible torturous
painful agonizing way because Spanish
custom says if a bull causes injury or
death to all fighter then its mother has
to be slaughtered this anecdote from
mark raises a bunch of different
memories for me first and foremost
because I lived in the past on the
border between France and Spain I could
remember the surreal contrast because I
did know vegans you know really serious
vegan act is only a couple of course any
really serious passionate vegan activist
in that part of France none of them talk
to me anymore
um and you know you'd have these debates
about these very fine points what about
honey what about feeding you know what
about cat food you know there is it
naturally when you have a group of
vegans sitting yeah everyone's already
vegan you're not not debating most basic
ideas and your topic with your day oh
yeah on Saturday there's a there's a
protest against the bullfighting anyway
the contrast would just seem so
hilarious it just seemed like oh yeah
right you know in yeah here we are 21st
century and this is a debate yeah it's
we're still asking the question about
you know torturing an animal to death in
public as as a form of entertainment as
a contrast to that when I was on the
internet when I back then I had a blog
talking about veganism within tumblr I
remember there was a slogan that some
people had as t-shirts and some people
just had as a graphic say I support
animals that kill their trainers I
support freedom for animals that kill
their their human captors this is being
promoted as a political slogan like as a
protest move within veganism and I know
what they're talking about the talking
about situations where you know a lion
kills the lion lion tamer I think at
that time an elephant had killed someone
at the zoo and they were arguing no you
know even if an elephant kills a human
being the zoo that elephant should be
set free that elephant didn't do
anything wrong that elephant should be
congratulated for towing to pick
something heroic and something right and
to me again mark obviously mark has none
of these tendencies but he reminds me of
that of that danger of vegans thinking
that becoming ever more self-righteous
ever more extreme ever more narrowly
defined and ever more militant that
we're going to become more more
influential but the real question is how
can we assemble this set of emotions and
impulses we have into a really
actionable program whether that's a
program for public education
or program for the pursuit of political
change and you know we we have the
saying in English that all legislation
is based on animus it is a sad thing
that when an elephant kills a human
being people want to take revenge on
that elephant and people want to want to
kill that elephant but you know if we're
ever going to move beyond being one
percent of the population if we're ever
going to motivate and reward people for
getting on side with such simple and
fundamental questions as refusing to
wear leather refusing to eat meat the
long-term pursuit of the end of the
cycle of domestication exploitation of
animals it's not going to be digging
yourself in to defend the life of an
elephant that's killed a human being
even though I admit it appeals to me
there's something grandiose you know
this maybe that's the villain in me
there's something villainous in not just
wanting to rescue and free elephants
from the circus but specifically wanting
to rescue that elephant a picturesque
you could reward the elephant that
killed is human captors of wanting to
rescue you know the bowl that killed the
bullfighter um to be sure that's
something that probably stirs many many
many young and rebellious vegans but
look the challenge ahead of us the next
20 years the next 200 years it's how to
take those rebellious sediments and
really do something useful with them two
thousand years ago in ancient Rome the
Romans used to torture and Massacre
animals in the Colosseum or in
amphitheaters all over the Roman world
and yet in the year 2016 Spanish people
are watching these animals being
tortured and massacred in exactly the
same way in what is effectively
amphitheaters not much different to the
ancient Romans I thought we had
progressed I thought that Spain was
decent sort of civilized country it
appears I was wrong but I've also lived
in several different parts of Asia where
bullfighting exists in its own
indigenous form and over here both
fighting instead has the same meaning
that you would expect it to have in
parallel the cockfighting and dog
fighting here where I am right now in
kunming at least once a year they have
bullfighting at the so-called stone
forest stone forest is a local landmark
I'm sure in the problems as a whole they
have many other towns with that
tradition where they get out two bulls
and have one Bowl fight the other
obviously to make it an event they have
many many Bulls fight in the same day
traditions of that kind are scattered
around East Asia some of the outer
islands of Japan still organize events
of that kind with with bullfighting bowl
and of course where I was in Laos just a
short distance north of the capital city
there was a major annual festival with
bullfighting by that again by that
definition not a human fighting a bull
but having a series of bulls square off
in a in a contest I was working inside
the Lao government in a peculiar
Department that's best known for
publishing the government controlled
newspaper but actually that department
does a number of other interesting
things different types of government
communications and research there were a
few other things aside from the
newspaper that I learned a lot from
about working inside that that
department but our our intrepid
reporters all of whom were government
officials you understand all of them you
know what we published there was one
hundred percent a government-controlled
message went out to report on on these
bullfights and he did I mean I worked
with the original draft obviously the
final article that was published was was
censored so I forget how much of the
original description was in there but he
wrote this this dramatic description of
all the different elements of what was
going on in the crowd among other things
there you know the crowd really did feel
afraid the Bulls would charge at one
another
but just as frequently they would get
angry at the human surrounding them and
charged into the crowd trying to either
trying to escape or trying to you know
knock over some of the people or both so
the crowd was there they were not
passively sitting on the ground watching
this event they were standing and
everyone in the crowd you could even see
in the still photographs they were
constantly ready to kind of sprint in
fourth direction or another wanting to
watch the spectacle but at the same time
very much feeling that lives were in
danger and you know the psychology of
the crowd and the psychology the Bulls
were all written up in this report it
was handed to me to edit and prepare for
for the press and one of the things the
journalists or the government official
you know observed he said you know many
people were unprepared for how unique
each of the animals was you know each of
the animals really had his own
psychology these are all bowls so
they're all male so i can say he instead
of it um you know that that sometimes
there be a bull that was really massive
had big shoulders and looked strong and
people were expecting it to be
aggressive but just its personality was
was friendly one of the most anticipated
matches the two bowls when put together
just got along they were just friendly
towards one another they sort of you
know um nuzzle each other and you know
had the equivalent of a conversation
looking to there was no hostility and
then on the other hand some of the
smaller bowls turned out to be really
tenacious and plucky and please the
crowd with their bloodlust or what have
you at one point I remember the article
noted that the fans of the sport would
record how deeply the horns of the Bulls
had penetrated into the other bowls when
they gorge one another which didn't
happen all that often as you can imagine
and the journalists turned to me and he
said what I don't understand is how they
actually measure the depth of the wound
he was imagining these fans of the sport
inserting a
a ruler into the wound on the the
suffering bull at the time I suggested
to him that no no he had it the wrong
way around what they would measure was
how much blood was on the horn of the
winning bolt you can see these were the
distractions I had when I worked these
sorts of jobs while at the same time
doing research applying for humanitarian
work teaching myself both pally and
lotion in subways subways an intensely
meaningless life I was leading I guess I
learned a lot I learned a lot of that
job if I stayed any longer I probably
would have learned less and less of each
passing day but for a short time at a
job like that I learned a lot and I had
access to a lot of government documents
government research ngot United Nations
documents rendered to the government in
English and so on so on I learned a lot
not just not just about bullfighting um
you know the sense in which I have mixed
feelings about this is that by contrast
you know many people I spoke to
connected to Japan including one amount
professors who was Japanese one of my
friends who's Japanese but living in
Canada they all remark to me that Japan
is now such an intensely urbanized
culture that children grow up completely
alienated from having any notion of what
these animals are now i would add what
these animals are like in the wild but
these children are are alienated even
from knowing what the domesticated
animals are like and i've been told many
times when you ask a Japanese child to
draw a picture of fish or chicken
they'll draw like a small red cube for
fish or they'll draw something similar
they'll draw you know a diced white cube
for chicken and you know one Japanese
person told me that you know in person
and then I remember I mentioned it to my
professor who's Japanese and
conversation he said yes he said that
was incredibly common incredibly
widespread because there is just no
sense of connection
22 what these animals are let alone who
they are and that report on bullfighting
and Laos you know as brutal and as
terrible as it might be you could see
that this event which is of course
carried on for the sake of tradition and
again it's a bullfighting another Bowl
not not a human that the people
participating and witnessing it even
though that's not why they're there even
though they may be there just out of
bloodlust or what have you they really
are forced to witness the unique
personalities of these animals uh that
the the animals have you told different
characters and different different
personality types let's leave it at that
you know and they get to see some of the
natural behaviors for these animals
because of course in nature I'm you know
domesticated bowl now now barely
resembles well okay it resembles to some
extent the Oryx it'sit's wild ancestor
but these are these are animals that
have been very much transformed by
domestication but still you're getting
to see some sort of a behavior that you
know it shouldn't be for human
entertainment but it is something that
comes to them naturally so when I was in
France living on the border between
France and Spain in exactly that area
French Catalonia where the different
cattle and provinces all had to decide
whether or not that we're going to ban
this sport the different French
provinces had to decide where the
whether or not they were going to ban
the sport or to what extent they were
going to ban the support I mean it
really is one of those moments where
people have to look in the mirror and
ask what is civilization anyway does
amino mark here says repeatedly that
this reminds him of the brutality of
ancient Rome for most of Europe clinging
to the Tattered Remnants of ancient
Roman civilization defined civilization
that that that was refinement that was
high culture and genuinely in that part
of France and Spain you literally walk
past the remnants of the ancient Roman
it's it's a very hard thing to look back
at human history and say all of this was
an error for centuries and centuries we
thought tobacco was good for us we
thought it was a medicine or we thought
it was harmless and now we know that's
an error we just have to limit about for
centuries and centuries we thought that
this sort of use of animals was
precisely what differentiated us from
barbarians this is what made us
civilized this was our high culture and
to look at all that and and shrug it off
as only so many centuries of error it's
very hard thing to do a lot of people in
Spain a very upset and you know the the
Prime Minister is paying tributes to the
guy and saying what a wonderful man he
was to be honest I couldn't give a [ __ ]
that this bullfighter died in fact when
I heard the news this morning I had a
smile on my face I would applaud the
bull for killing the guy I couldn't yeah
I mean you know if you're going to spend
your life torturing and massacring
animals in this disgusting out of date
sort of ancient Roman way then you know
if the ball turns around and kills you
did you get exactly what you deserve
Victor barrio got exactly what he
deserved